- We generally smooth/blur an image when there is lots of noise or lighting issues.
- **Gaussian blur** is the most popular method, but sometimes does not suit your purposes.

#### How Blur Works
- First step is to define a **kernel**. A kernel is a "window" drawn over sub-grid of pixels that does operations on those pixels.
- The **kernel size** is the number of rows and columns. (3x3 etc)
- **Blur** is applied to the middle pixel of the kernel, using the surrounding pixels within the kernel.

- There are different methods of blurring:
	- **Averaging** computes the middle pixel as an average of the surrounding intensities.
		- **blur()** computes by averaging and takes in a source image and a kernel size as a tuple. (Sizes must be odd.)
			`average = cv.blur(img, (7,7))`
	- **Gaussian** computes by giving each surrounding value a weight, then computing the middle pixel as an average of those weights. This tends to result in a weaker but more *natural* blur.
		- **GaussianBlur()** takes in a source image, a kernel size (as tuple), and a *standard deviation in the x direction*. (For now, you can set this as 0.)
			`gauss = cv.GaussianBlur(img, (7,7), 0)`
	- **Median** is similar to averaging, but finds the median. This is generally better at removing noise, which is valuable in advanced computer vision projects.
		- **medianBlur()** takes in a source image, a single integer (OpenCV assumes it will be a square kernel).
			`median = cv.medianBlur(img, 7)`
	- **Bilateral** blurring is very effective and often used in advanced computer vision projects. It applies blurring, but retains the edges.
		- **bilateralFilter()** takes in a source image, a **diameter** size (note that this is *not* a kernel), a sigmaColor (larger value means more colors will influence blur), and a sigmaSpace (larger value means pixels further out will influence blur.)
			`bilateral = cv.bilateralFilter(img, 5, 15, 15)`
