# Thresholding and Binarizing Images

- **Thresholding** is the **binarized realization** of an image. Basically this means we take an image and convert it to a binary image where pixels are either white (255) or black (0).

- We will use **threshold()** which takes in a grayscale sourge image, a threshold value, a maximum value (what to set pixel to if it's above threshold), and threshold type (we'll use `cv.THRESH_BINARY` for now) and returns the threshold value you gave, and the thresholded image:
  
  ```python
  threshold, thresh = cv.threshold(img, threshval, valmax, cv.THRESH_BINARY)
  ```

#### Simple Thresholding

- A simple way to do this is take an image and decide on a **thresholding value** which will be compared to each pixel. If pixel is less, set to black (0), if more, set to white (255).
  
  ```python
  gray = cv.cvtColor(img, cv.COLOR_BGR2GRAY)
  threshold, thresh = cv.threshold(gray, 150, 255, cv.THRESH_BINARY)
  ```

- We can create an inverse threshold image byt using the `cv.THRESH_BINARY_INV` type:
  
  ```python
  threshold, thresh = cv.threshold(gray, 150, 255, cv.THRESH_BINARY_INV)
  ```

#### Adaptive Thresholding

- With the simple technique, we need to manually define a threshold value each time, but it is possible to let the program find the **optimal threshold value**.

- For this we use **adaptiveThreshold()** which takes in a garyscale source image, a max pixel value, an adaptive method (we will use `cv.ADAPTIVE_THRESH_MEAN_C` for now), a threshold type (still `cv.THRESH_BINARY`), a kernel size, and a "c" value which is an integer subtracted from the mean for fine-tuning the threshold calculation (use `3` for now):
  
  ```python
  adaptive_thresh = cv.adaptiveThresh(gray, 255, cv.ADAPTIVE_THRESH_MEAN_C,
                                      cv.THRESH_BINARY, 11, 3)
  ```

- Note that **adaptiveThreshold()** only returns the thresholded image.

- Essentially what has happened is OpenCV has computed the mean of the pixels within a kernel and finds the optimal threshold value for that pixel.

- We can also use `cv.THRESH_BINARY_INV` here.

- You can also use the `cv.ADAPTIVE_THRESH_GAUSSIAN_C`, but you just have to play. Depending on what you're doing, mean might be better or gaussian might be better.
