# Face Detection with Haar Cascades

- Face **detection** and **recognition** are very different things.
  
  - **Detection**: detects presence of face
  
  - **Recognition**: identifies detected faces

- In face detection we use **classifiers**, which are (ML?) algorithms which define whether a given image is *positive* or *negative*. There are classifiers built on faces, cars, buildings, dogs, cats, etc.

- OpenCV comes with a lot of pre-trained classifiers, but two main ones are **Haar cascades** and **local binary patterns** (which are more advanced Haar cascade classifiers).

- Haar cascade classifiers are stored in **.xml** format and can be found online like here: [opencv/data/haarcascades at 4.x · opencv/opencv · GitHub](https://github.com/opencv/opencv/tree/4.x/data/haarcascades)

- They use the edges of an image to predict whether an object is present or not.

#### Using Harr Cascades

- We want to convert to grayscale so that we're only dealing with binary data for edge detection.

- To put the classifier in a variable, use **CascadeClassfier()** which takes in only the path to the file of the classifier you want to use:
  
  ```python
  haar_cascade = cv.CascadeClassifier('haar_face.xml')
  ```

- Then use **detectMultiScale()** method on the cascade variable taking in the source image to detect from. Also include parameters of scale factor (1.1 for now) and minimum neighbours (2 for now) a rectangle should have to be called a face.
  
  ```python
  faces_rect = haar_cascade.detectMultiScale(gray, scaleFactor=1.1, minNeighbors=3)
  ```

- **detectMultiScale()** returns *list* of rectangular coodinates of found faces as a list.
  
  - Likely returns something like:
    
     `[[243,653], [243,645], [685,493], 494,689]], [[764,283],...,[483,933]],`

- Because the returned value is a list, we can iterate over it to draw rectangles:
  
  ```python
  for (x,y,w,h) in faces_rect:
      cv.rectangle(img, (x,y), (x+w, y+h), (0,255,0), 2) # draws red boxes
  ```

- Then you just need to show the image!

- You can hone in the accuracey of the face detection by tuning the `scaleFactor` and the `minNeighbors`. It will become more accurate but also more prone to noise.
