- There are seven basic functions you'll use in almost every computer vision project.

#### Grayscale
- You can convert 3-channel BGR images to grayscale so that you only see the *intensity distribution*.
- To convert the color space, we use **cvtColor()** which takes in an image target, and a color code. (For BGR to grayscale, use `cv.COLOR_BGR2GRAY`)

#### Blur
- A slight blur can remove noise in an image due to bad lighting or sensor issues. There are many blur techniques, but we will stick to **gaussian** blur.
- **GaussianBlur()** takes in a source image, a kernel size tuple (*must be an odd number*!), and `cv.BORDER_DEFAULT` as a third argument.
- The kernel size will determine "how blurred" the image is because it samples more surrounding pixels.

#### Edge Cascade
- An edge cascade essentially detects the edges in the image, detecting the boundaries of objects and regions in the image. There are many edge cascades available, but we will stick to the **canny edge detection**.
- **Canny()** takes a source image, and two threshold values. The lower the threshold values, the more sensitive the edge detection. They respresent a minimum value and a maximum value for the function to use *somehow...*
- We can reduce the amount of edges found by applying a blur before the edge cascade.

#### Dilating
- We can dilate a specific structure of an image using **dilate()** which takes in a structured image (such as an image that has been edge detected), a kernel size, and an amount of iterations.
	`dilated = cv.dilate(canny, (3,3), iterations=1)`

#### Eroding
- Eroding is the opposite of dilating. Use **erode()** the same way as **dilate()**.

#### Resizing
- The **resize()** function takes in a source image and a target dimension tuple **ignoring the aspect ratio**.
`resized = cv.resize(img, (500,500), interpolation=cv.INTER_AREA)`
- The **cv.INTER_AREA** interpolation is useful when shrinking an image past it's original dimensions. If you are trying to enlarge the image, you'd likely want to use **cv.INTER_LINEAR** or **cv.INTER_CUBIC** (slower but better).

#### Cropping
- To crop an image, simply select the elements of the source image array.
	`cropped = img[50:200, 200:400]`
	